Computercraft Networking Task Force (CNTF)                                Ryan T
Request For Comments: 0001                                             June 2025
Category: Standard Proposal

 ARCH-IP - An Interserver Computercraft Networking Protocol + ARCH-DNS Protocol

Introduction:
    ARCH-IP is a system for sending packets of data to and from Computercraft
    computers both within a Minecraft server and between Computercraft computers
    on two different Minecraft servers. ARCH-IP allows for inter-server
    networking via the use of a primary Websocket server, which will be referred
    to as the Backend Server, which will facilitate packet transmission between
    Hub Computers on each Minecraft server connected to the network. The Central
    System will also manage ARCH-DNS (Domain Name System), which allows for
    IP Addresses to be assigned a human friendly Domain Name, like "test.com".
    The ARCH-IP network is also designed to allow other protocols to be built
    on top of it, which allows many different types of network traffic to
    co-exist on the same network. The rest of this document will go into detail
    on how the ARCH-IP networking system works, and how it can be implemented.

Terminology:
    Following this is a list of terms used in this document to describe ARCH-IP
    and it's components, along with their definitions.
    Backend Server
        - Is a Websocket server that acts as the central connection point for
          the whole network. All packets whos sender and recipients are on
          different Minecraft servers have to go through this Websocket server.
    Hub Computer
        - Is a special computer in every Minecraft server connected to the
          ARCH-IP network that is connected to the Backend Server. There must be
          only ONE Hub Computer in a given Minecraft server, and it must ALWAYS
          be running while that Minecraft server is in operation. In order to
          transmit a packet to another Minecraft server, the packet must first
          be sent to the Hub Computer on the Sender's server.
    Node Computer
        - Is a computer connected to the ARCH-IP network. Each Node must have a
          unique IP Address, which will be used to tell the network which node
          sent a packet and which node a packet needs to go to
    IP Address
        - Is a unique address that referes to a specific Node Computer. IP
          Addresses are 24 bits and are written in the format X.Y.Z, where X, Y,
          and Z are numbers ranging from 0 to 255. IP Addresses can either be
          Static or Dynamic. Static IP Addresses are permanently assigned to one
          Node, wheras Dynamic IP Addresses are temporarily assigned to a Node
          and only last for a single network session.
    Domain Name
        - Is a human friendly name assigned to an IP Address. Domain names can
          only be assigned to Static IPs, and consist of two parts: the Top
          Level Domain (or TLD), and the Server Name, which are seperated by a
          dot, such as "server.com". the TLD is used to specify the category of
          server that the client is accessing (which goes after the dot), and
          the Server Name is used to specify which specific server the client is
          accessing.
    Network Port
        - Is a number used to categorize packet types and protocols. Port
          numbers range from 0 to 65535, and one must be included in each packet
          sent over the ARCH-IP network. Each protocol built on top of ARCH-IP
          should specify a default port, and those port numbers should be unique
          to every other protocol being actively used on the network.
    Network Packet
        - Is the smallest unit of data sent over the ARCH-IP network. Every
          packet consists of the following information: ARCH Version (2 Bytes),
          Sender IP (3 Bytes), Recipent IP (3 Bytes), Port (2 Bytes), Packet 
          Length (2 Bytes), Payload (1-65,523 Bytes). The maximum total Packet
          length is 65,535 bytes, including the header. To send more than 65,523
          Bytes, you will need to split your transmission across two or more
          packets, and include information in your protocol spec to tell the
          different packets apart.

IP Address Structure and Assignment:
    IP address consist of three parts, written as X.Y.Z. Each of X, Y, and Z
    range from 0-255. X indicates the Minecraft server where the Node Computer
    is located, Y indicates the "Network Block" of the Node, and Z singles out
    a specific Node. Server Networks IDs are assigned by the Backend Server, and
    in order to add a Minecraft server to the network, the Backend Server
    Operator will need to modify the Backend Server Registry. Within a Minecraft
    Server, the Operator(s) of the server will be able to assign Network Blocks
    and IP Address on the Hub Computer. Each Network Block can be assigned as
    one of three types: Static Blocks, Dynamic Blocks, and Managed Blocks.
    Static Blocks can have Static IP Addresses manually assigned by the Hub
    Operators. Dynamic Blocks are open for Dynamic IP Addresses to be assigned
    automatically when a client computer wants to connect to the network.
    Managed Blocks are Blocks given out to people or organizations by the Hub
    Operators, who then set up their own miniature Hubs, where they can assign
    Static IPs within their Block and set aside sections for Dynamic IPs.