Computercraft Networking Task Force (CNTF)                              Hunter T
Request For Comments: 0003                                             June 2025
Category: Protocol Specification

                               ISPCP Protocols

Overview:
    This document describes the protocols which may be used within an ISPCP
    packet.
    
Protocols:
    Basic control:
        x00: ARCH-IP
            ARCH-IP Packet.
        x01: AUTH
            Authenticate connection.
    
    ARCH-IP Config with service provider:
        x10: GETBLOCK
            Requests the service provider for an ARCH-IP address block.
    
    ARCH-IP Config with master server:
        x20: REQBLK
            Request the master for the specified block or the next free block.
        x21: FREBLK
            Tell the master to free the specified block, or all blocks assigned
            to the session.

x01 - AUTH:
    The request to the server must contain an authentication token, given by the
    operator of the server. The response from the server will contain either the
    value x00 (Fail) or xff (Valid).
    
x10 - GETBLOCK:
    This is a request to an ARCH-IP service provider for a single block of
    ARCH-IP addresses. There is no payload data to send. The response from the
    server will contain the address block assigned to the session, 3 bytes,
    these 3 bytes are the upper 24 bits of an ARCH-IP address. If requested
    again, the service should responde with the address already assigned. If the
    request could not be fulfilled, the response will contain a paylaod size of
    0.
    
x20 - REQBLK:
    Request for an address block to be assigned to the session. If the payload
    contains no data, the server will responde with the first available address
    block in the dynamic address range. If the payload contains an address
    block, 3 bytes, the server will assign the specified block to the session if
    available. The response from the server will be 3 bytes on success
    (containing the assigned address), otherwise the payload size is 0 on error.
    
x21 - FREBLK:
    Request the server to free blocks assigned to the session. If the request
    payload size is 0, all address blocks assigned to the session are release.
    If the payload size is 3 bytes, containing an address block. That specified
    address block is released from the session. The server will always responde
    with a payload size of 0.